<!-- omit in toc -->
# JUCE_Experiments

Experiments with JUCE framework.

- [JUCE](#juce)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [ProJucer](#projucer)
  - [JUCE Projects](#juce-projects)
  - [Versioning](#versioning)
  - [CMake](#cmake)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
- [Application Types](#application-types)
  - [GUI Application](#gui-application)
  - [Audio Plugin](#audio-plugin)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [`Animation_Test`](#animation_test)
  - [`ComboBox_Test`](#combobox_test)


# JUCE

General information about JUCE.


## Installation

- [JUCE Downloads](https://www.juce.com/get-juce)

JUCE comes in different plans, either free or paid. It can either be built from [source code](https://github.com/juce-framework/JUCE) or [downloaded](https://juce.com/download/) for Windows, MacOS and Linux.


## ProJucer

- [ProJucer pt. 1](https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_new_projucer_project.html)
- [ProJucer pt. 2](https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_manage_projucer_project.html)

Usually, you will manage all your JUCE projects through the **ProJucer**. The ProJucer either comes with JUCE's standard [installation](#installation), or it must be built from [source code](#installation). If you decide for the latter, that is, to clone the JUCE repository and build it from source code, the ProJucer executable will be located under the relative path of the chosen platform. For example, if JUCE is built for Windows using Visual Studio (using the `JUCE/extras/Projucer/Builds/VisualStudio2022/Projucer.sln` solution file), the executable can be found in `JUCE/extras/Projucer/Builds/VisualStudio2022/x64/Release/App/Projucer.exe`


## JUCE Projects

Take a look at the second link to understand the anatomy of a JUCE project. Essentially:
1. Open the ProJucer and select the desired project type (GUI, Audio, DSP, etc.).
2. Select the desired exporter (Visual Studio, XCode, Android Studio, etc.).
3. From the ProJucer, use the dedicated button to open the generated project (for example, a Visual Studio solution).
4. The above mentioned project should now be open in the associated IDE (for example, Visual Studio).
5. From the IDE, build and run the project.

A JUCE project will both use:
- JUCE source code (JUCE modules) from JUCE installation directory (`JUCE/modules`)
- Auto-generated source code located under `<ProjectName>/JuceLibraryCode`


## Versioning

Based on the anatomy of a [JUCE project](#juce-projects), you can put a whole JUCE project directory under version control with the exception of these two subdirectories:

- `Builds` (compilation artefacts)
- `JuceLibraryCode` (source code auto-generated by ProJucer)


## CMake

- [JUCE Docs](https://github.com/juce-framework/JUCE#cmake)

JUCE projects can also be built with CMake.


## Tutorials

- [JUCE Docs](https://juce.com/learn/tutorials/)


# Application Types

## GUI Application

- [JUCE Docs - GUI Application](https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_choosing_projucer_template.html#tutorial_choosing_projucer_template_project_gui_application)
- [JUCE Docs - Main Window](https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_main_window.html)

> The GUI Application project is the most generic of all GUI projects and in addition to the `Main.cpp` file, it also creates a `MainComponent` class derived from the `Component` class.<br>
> The `Component` class is a base class for all user-interface objects in JUCE. All your GUI elements should be defined and placed in the `MainComponent` class.

> When a GUI Application project is created you will find the following files in the source folder:
> - `Main.cpp`: Derived from the `JUCEApplication` class, it provides initialisation code for your application and window.
> - `MainComponent.h`: Header file for the `MainComponent` derived from the `Component` class.
> - `MainComponent.cpp`: Implementation file for the `MainComponent` derived from the `Component` class.

- To add a child component to a component, use the `addAndMakeVisible` call in the component's constructor.
- Use the `paint` method to draw custom shapes and figures in your component.
- Use the `resized` method to specify the sizes of children components.


## Audio Plugin

- [JUCE Docs](https://docs.juce.com/master/tutorial_choosing_projucer_template.html#tutorial_choosing_projucer_template_project_audio_plugin)

The Audio Plugin template's structure is quite different from all the other templates, in that it creates an `AudioProcessor` and an `AudioProcessorEditor` classes.

> - The `AudioProcessor` class is an abstract base class that handles the audio processing of your audio plugin. It represents an instance of a loaded plugin and is wrapped by the different plugin formats such as VST, AU, RTAS and AAX.
> - The `AudioProcessorEditor` class is a base class derived from the `Component` class and holds the GUI functionalities of your audio plugin.


# Examples

Descriptions of the examples versioned in this repository.


## `Animation_Test`

- [Jucer File](Animation_Test/Animation_Test.jucer)

2D animation of a dot on the $xy$ plane. The dot follows a circular motion, decomposed into its components along the $x$ and $y$ axes with sinusoidal functions.


## `ComboBox_Test`

- [Jucer File](Animation_Test/ComboBox_Test.jucer)

Creation of a `juce::ComboBox`.